January 2nd, 2016

Day 1 of Development
Beginning this whole process with setting up my development environment, including setting my environment paths, 
output directories and everything else I can think of.

January 5th, 2016

Day 2 of Development
Today was the second day I was able to get actually working on the project, I decided on a scheme for certain systems.
I am placing the Windows specific stuff in separate files, 1 for window creation, 1 for input and 1 for sound so far.
I am going to use a game header and cpp file as the main game logic, these files will call other methods from other objects
for other game play systems.

January 6th, 2016

Day 3 of Development
Today I'm working on getting some of my basic code up and running starting to build out my classes.
My Goals For Today:
- Complete setting up the .h and .cpp files I have already decided on for the structure of certain components
- Get a window displaying on the screen by completing the class for the win32 Window
- If I have time I will complete the Input class and get it working to accept at least keyboard input
-- I will not be able to test actual XInput functionality on this engine or anything until Friday when
-- I get my hands on a new XBOX 360 or XBOX One Controller
So I have reached the end of my day of programming and I have completed getting the Window displaying on the
screen and I was able to re-purpose an old input setup and got that wired up in this game so that it works.
I also began stubbing out the Game Class so I could get the Input working.  My goal for the next day of
development is to get the audio system working in the game, to get everything stubbed out and ready to be
used in the actual game.  I do anticipate having to modify current systems when I get closer to actual
release.

January 7th, 2016

Day 4 of Development
I have begun working on the audio system today I'm hoping to be able to get the main part of it up and running.
Setting up XAudio2 is a pain in the ass it is very robust and will prove to be beneficial in the end but it this
sucks to setup and get working.
So I have reached the end of my day of programming again, today I did not get as much done as I was hoping to,
I was able to get sound to play on the computer that I started up.  But I had to use exact pathing and that is
not where I want that to be.  But that is something I can fix tomorrow as well as figuring out how to work with
the combination of music and sound effects and to not have one stop the other.  So tomorrow will be day 2 of
sound stuff hopefully I can complete the full sound system tomorrow so I can check that off my list of things
to be completed in the game.

January 9th, 2016

Day 5 of Development
Today is the second day of working on the sound code for the game engine.  I got my hands on an xbox one controller
today so now I can test out my input code to verify that it is working.
So far I have made great strides on the audio code, I have a very good framework and implementation for audio.
Tonight I was able to verify that my input controls work both keyboard and controller, I also made some changes to some
files so that I am able to include constants in every file that I need access to it and I won't get an error when I
compile it.  I feel like I have everything working really well now.  My goal for tomorrow is to do some rigorous testing
of the audio system specifically on can I play multiple sounds and have them play simultaneously.
Notes For Another Day: - Things I want to get worked on
- Figure out a system for game state - so that I have a system that can be checked anywhere in the game to see what state
-- the game is in weather it is updating, running, paused, or closing.  This will lead to code for handling when the player
-- closes the window, checking with them if they want to save there progress before they leave.
- Once I get the audio system ironed out I want to begin working on the graphics system getting things displaying on the
-- screen so that once I get some artwork I can get a demo put together for the game to show to potential investors.
- Figure out a resource management system for the game this will almost have to be done before I can complete the
-- graphics system because I will have to have a system to handle the artwork for the game.  When I figure out the
-- resource management system I may have to revisit the audio system for changes potentially to how audio files are handled.
- Final thought for the night on things to work on in the future is figure out a logging system for errors I need to add
-- this close to the top of my list so that I can get it implemented right away to help catch bugs early before I get to
-- in depth into developing various systems.

January 10th, 2016

Day 6 of Development
The goal for tonight is to test out the sound code and make sure everything is working the way I want it to currently, I do
anticipate having to make changes to the code in the future when I begin using it in actual gameplay stuff.  The other goal
is to get a logging system up and running and to have it begin writing out data to a text file every time the program is run.
OK I have tested out my sound code and after some bugs where worked out I was able to get it working playing multiple sounds
simultaneously but now I just have to figure out how to make it play over and over when I press a button.
I am ending my night of development at this point, I have been unable to complete my code for being able to play sound effects
on command and be able to start and stop them as well.  I am stopping now for the night but tomorrow I will get around to
completing this I believe I have found a hack that will work for this, I'm going to try to use callback methods for this issue.

January 11th, 2016

Day 7 of Development
The goal for today is to finish buttoning up the sound code, testing it out, making sure that I can play sound effects on Que
and replay them over and over as needed.  With that part being completed now my focus will be to get a logging system working
so I can get it implemented into every system in the game engine to keep an eye out for memory leaks, and other stuff.  I have
got a logging system working now I just need to iron out some details of how things are done.  I will come back to the Log
System again another day as I find issues and need to make it work better.  As long as it gives me what I need as an output
for debugging purposes it really doesn't matter if it does strange stuff, no actual player will ever see the output.
The next thing I am going to focus my energy and attention on is Resource Management I need to get a very good and robust
Resource Management system including memory management completed before I move on to graphics and everything else in the
engine.  I am ending this day of development now I have completed my sound system to a level that I am quite happy with,
I have also completed a logging system that gives me all sorts of info as I choose to have it do.  I am going to continue
working on the ResourceManager system for the game engine and will make that my next goal for this.

January 12th, 2016

Day 8 of Development
The goal for today is to continue working on the Resource Manager and deciding how I want to handle various types of data
and resources in the game.  One thing that is tripping me up on this that I need to iron out with my business partner is
how we want the game to look because that will help decide how I want to handle loading resources into memory.  The thing
I'm trying to decide is at what point can the game load more resources into memory, what are going to be the choke points
that allow for loading resources.  Also how much do I need to have on the screen, and how much can I reuse other sprites
because if the background people on the street can be the same sprites over and over than the amount of data having to be
loaded into memory will be minimal.

January 13th, 2016

Day 9 of Development
I spent yesterday doing research on memory and resource management, after reading a bunch of stuff on various types of
memory managers it looks like using a stack allocator for Blood Noir will work best.  I discussed with my business partner
how we are going to handle areas that the player can go into and we have decided to use a system where the playable sections
of the larger map will consist of several blocks of areas that can be gone into and between each block.  I am going to use
the stack allocator and just have it be that when you go to an area of the map it will load all content needed for that
specific section of the map that way once the area is loaded there will be no loading time.

January 14th, 2016

Day 10 of Development
I have spent the last few days doing research and figuring out what I'm going to use for my memory manager and my resource
manager.  I believe I have decided on using a double ended stack allocator for my memory manager and I'm going to attempt
to use the resource manager concept that I found on gamedev.net that looks really promising but I will continue researching
today and make my decision between today and tomorrow and start coding it after that.

January 15th, 2016

Day 11 of Development
I completed my study of the different tech choices and have decided on my system for resource management.  I am going to begin
programming this system tomorrow after work.  My goal is to get it up and running by the end of the day.

January 16th,2016

Day 12 of Development
Today is the day that I am going to move forward with the engine I have taken a few days to study resource management systems,
as well as taking a well deserved rest for a few hours playing games and not focusing on development for a short time.  Today
when I return home from work my goal is to complete getting this system implemented in code and being used.  Hopefully if
everything goes well I will be able to check this system off my to-do list and move on to the graphics system starting tomorrow.
Well I did not get anything done today like I had planned I had all the intentions in the world when I got home from work to
begin working on coding the Resource Manager.  But I made the decision once I got home that I was to burnt out and needed one
more night of relaxing before I begin working on things again.

January 18th, 2016

Day 13 of Development
Today my goal is to get the Resource Manager implemented into my code base and get it working.  The first resource that I will
look into adding to the resource manager is my sound code, but I need to do more research to see if I even need to worry about
it.  I'm not sure how xaudio2 handles resources.  If I can get this part of the code implemented and working I will begin work
on the graphics system today as well.  Well I was not able to focus today and I wasn't able to complete the resource manger
code I have it moved over to my engine and I started building the resource class for sound resources.  I will complete this
and get it functional tomorrow and then begin on the graphics code.  No playing games tomorrow until after TaeKwonDo.

January 19th, 2016

Day 14 of Development
Today my goal is to complete the resource manager implementation and get it working with the sound system.  I have been able to
complete this section as I was hoping to.  Now my goal is to begin working on the graphics system getting my new graphics class
planned out and stubbed out.  This will be a multiple day project because the goal is to figure out how to do 2D graphics using
DirectX 11.  I don't actually need to use DirectX 11 for this system and in all reality I should use DirectX 9 instead but I
also want to use this as an opportunity to learn more about graphics programming and the various abilities of DirectX.  I'm
going to however try to use the Feature Level system for DirectX 11 and make it so that if somebody is using hardware that only
supports DirectX 9 they can still play the game.  This way I shouldn't limit who can play the game.

January 20th, 2016

Day 15 of Development
Today I am beginning work on the graphics system of this game engine I started writing down some ideas last night and I'm going
to continue working on figuring out what I want to do for the graphics system of the engine. I have definitely decided on using
DirectX11 for my graphics system but now I have to decide how I want to represent levels in the game and decide on handling
textures and what not as well as how to do parallax scrolling in a graphics system.  I do not anticipate finishing this system
this week I expect it to take a while to figure out exactly what to do for everything I also anticipate that I will have to
make changes to the graphics system as I go along in the future.

January 25th, 2016

Day 16 of Development
Today is the day that I will actually begin programming the graphics system for this game engine.  I have take the past few
days and taken a necessary break from programming to allow my brain to relax a bit.  This project is pushing my programming
abilities to a new level.  I am forced to learn so much about c++ and about game programming.  It looks like in order to
make graphics work the way I want to make them work and to make sure that I make the game as robust as I should to make sure
that some random person playing it can't break it by doing something as simple as resizing the window.  Of course this will
require a reworking of some of my other code to make it all work, but it will be worth it in the end.  I have completed the
changes to the code base to make the new graphics code work in the engine.  I have the program compiling again, and I have
the window being updated by DirectX 11.  Also everything that I had working before works still with the changes to the
main system for displaying the window to the screen.  Tomorrow my goal is to attempt to get a background on the screen
and if that goes smoothly then I will attempt to get parallax scrolling working as well.  Nothing standing in my way
right now with all of the work I have gotten done so far.  This project is actually coming together and it feels amazing
to be able to say this.  I will down the road attempt to add features related to the feature level system in directx 11
I can't imagine it will be to difficult, by doing this I will make it so the game works for the largest group of players.

January 26th, 2016

Day 17 of Development
The goal for today is to get some graphics displaying on the screen, if I am able to do this faster than anticipated then
I will attempt to get parallax scrolling working today as well.  Well I definitely will not get graphics displaying on the
screen today.  After doing a lot of research I have decided that I need to involve the DirectXTK into my game engine.  I'm 
working on integrating the graphics part first but I think I will also probably go ahead and use it for sound and input as
well which would make sure that my code will work on XBOX One in the future.  This will require another reworking of a lot
of my code but in the long run it will be worth it when I get things working correctly.  I am reaching the end of my day of
development I have successfully switched my engine over to using the DirectXTK for input and audio.  I will continue to
integrate the DirectXTK into my engine tomorrow and hopefully be able to get graphics displaying on the screen and with
how easy the DirectXTK system appears to be for graphics I may be able to get parallax scrolling working tomorrow as well.
Overall even though I had to take a step back and make some drastic changes to my engine I'm glad I did it.  This will
make things much easier in the future when we attempt to get the game running on the XBOXONE.  The other thing I am going
to accomplish tomorrow is I am going to move the sound controls out of the main game class and put them into a separate
SoundManager class where it will handle creating new sound effects, playing them and managing the objects related to it.
This will also clean things up the way I like to see things.  I will also work on setting up the TextureManager class
tomorrow as well and get things displaying on the screen by the end of the night.

January 27th, 2016

Day 18 of Development
Today I'm continuing my work on integrating the DirectXTK into the game engine my goal for today is to figure out graphics,
to get a background displaying on the screen and possibly to get the parallax scrolling working.  Well I did not get a
scrolling background working yet but I do have graphics displaying on the screen and I have completed upgrading the engine
to work with the DirectXTK and also I did some major upgrades to make it a much more stable engine with less chances of
running into any memory leaks in the future.  I did not get to in depth of messing with displaying graphics on the screen
but I did successfully get an image displayed on the screen and some text on the screen as well.  I am happy with the work
I have completed today even if I didn't get a scrolling background working yet.  I am hoping that by the end of next week
to have a character displayed on the screen moving around and to have the parallax scrolling implemented even if it is
just with my crappy programmer art.  Today was a very productive day and I do not regret spending the past 3 days doing
the major over haul to my engine.

January 28th, 2016

Day 19 of Development
Today was not a very productive day as I had to work however during my downtime at work I did start working out the details
of the map and the levels of the game.  I started working out how I want to handle things, how many layers to my parallax
scrolling and other details like that.  I did not get any code written yet but that will happen again starting on Monday
when I'm off work again.  Until then I will work on ironing out the details of these various systems including the texture
manager system, level system, map area system, as well as tilemaping and animating characters and independent layers of
the parallax scrolling map even when the player isn't moving.

January 31st, 2016

Day 20 of Development
Between yesterday and today I have been working on figuring out how to handle textures in a resource manager.  I have gone
back to some code that I had looked into when I was going to worry about doing all of my own resource management.  This
code works perfectly for my texture resource manager with some modifications, it is no longer using templates because I'm
going to have it just worry about textures and thats it.  I have been able to test it and have it work perfectly for me
with graphics displaying on the screen again.  This is a major step towards getting this project completed with this system
being complete I can now begin working on the level, and map systems for getting an actual level of the game displayed on
the screen with parallax scrolling.  Once I get that done I will be very close to having a demo of the game that we can submit
to steam project green light, submit to investors, submit to Microsoft to get approved for developing on the XBOX One.

February 1st, 2016

Day 21 of Development
The plan for today is to continue my work on getting map sections working, now that I have figured out the texture manager for
the engine I can begin working on said level and map system.  Also I had a thought earlier about how to handle buildings.  I
believe the whole system will look like this Each map will represent a section of the city that a boss will control, inside of
each map there will be a total of 4 levels but these levels will not be the levels in the traditional sense from other platform
games.  These levels will be connected vertically and the player can travel between the levels anytime they wish by walking
down a specific street to get to the next block.  Each level will represent 5 blocks worth horizontally.  Within each level
there will be several buildings that the player can explore in an attempt to find the boss they are looking for.  Some
buildings will have nothing of use and others will have little pieces that will tell the whole story of the game through the
lore.  The location of the boss in the specific map area can change each time the player goes into that area and each play
through of the game.

The levels of the game will be made up of tiles, the levels can be built in any tilemap editor available.  All of the tiles for
all of the levels of the game will be located in a single texture and it will be indexed into for building each level of the
game.  Each actual level will be made up of a set of arrays of integers that will define which tiles to draw at which spot.
The inside of buildings will also be built with tiles although I will use a separate tilemap texture file for the tiles.  There
will be another texture that will have all of the character sprites on it including their various animation steps for up down
left right and turning in circles.  As well as a set of textures for various other characters in the game.  The data for each
level will be scanned in from a file, where all layers for a specific level, and all the levels for a specific map will be
in a single file.

February 2nd, 2016

Day 22 of Development
The plan for today is to continue working on the whole map and level system, I did not get much programming done yesterday but
I did get a bunch of planning done for the various systems.  My current goal is to get the level and map systems built and then
get a map displayed on the screen with place holder graphics.  So after doing some more thinking and more discovery about how
to handle the graphics in the game specifically the backgrounds of the levels.  I have decided to make a change to my original
thinking of how I will handle things in each level.  So the new plan will be: A Map will represent a specific part of the city
within each map there 4 levels that are stacked on each other vertically like city blocks.  Each Map will consist of 5 blocks
horizontally and 4 blocks vertically.  Each Level will consist of multiple layers of graphics.
- Layer 0 will consist of things like distant buildings/ city sky line and will be made up of tiles from a tilemap / atlas
- Layer 1 will be a layer that will display things like clouds and birds, etc... and will be made up of tiles as well
- Layer 2 will be an image of the buildings for that block, it will be the buildings, the parts leading to alleys, and the
street corner and road that leads up to the next block up and again this layer will be made up of tiles.
- Layer 3 will be where the player and the NPC's, and the bums that assist you in the game with tips. The player's sprite, the
sprite's of the NPC's, and the sprite's of the bums will be stored in a tilemap or tile atlas including all of the frame's of
animation for their movement.  The player will be in its own file because their will be a lot of frames for all of his movement
and all of his abilities.
- Layer 4 will be an optional layer for certain levels that will consist of rain, or dust storm or other effects to darken up
the mood of the game.  On top of everything I will use shaders to give a dark, gritty, film noir style to the game.

Today I ended up making some major changes to the main engine again to better handle lost device and other scenarios that come
up with the running of windows applications.  I did a drastic overhaul of the system and got everything back up and running
again.  So now I'm at the point of getting back to work on the map -> level systems.

February 3rd, 2016

Day 23 of Development
So today is another day of development I am still working on the map and level systems of the game engine.  This is going to be
a huge leap forward in development when I get them complete.  For the time being I'm going to move forward with the plan that
I am going to use a single Texture as a tilemap / atlas to hold all tiles used in all of the various levels and maps in the
game.  This makes the most sense to me because in the end we will probably use a similar style for each level and area of the
city with some variations between the areas and those will just be extra tiles within the tilemap / atlas.  So the plan then
to make this work will be to have a class specifically called tilemap that will include all methods needed to load the tilemap
as well as to parse out the individual tiles from the tilemap texture and a way to compare the handle value of the specific
tile and the handle from the text file that will define the individual levels of the maps.  So the level will simply contain
an integer array that holds the values from the text file for the handles to the tilemap / atlas, each level also has to handle
the buildings of the level, and have trigger points that will cause the player to be loaded into the inside of the building.
The buildings will also contain levels I think I will create a separate class for the buildings to handle them because they
will be built differently from the rest of the Maps because they have the potential of having more levels inside of them.
Because of the plan of using a single tilemap / atlas to contain all tiles for all levels including the inside of buildings
loading the various levels, and the inside of buildings should be very quick and seem less with little to know downtime.
So then for data a single level will contain a string for the name of the map it belongs to, an integer array defining which
tiles go where on the screen.  The level will contain methods for returning the value of the integer array at a specific
location, as well as the method for initializing the level, I still need to figure out 100% how I'm going to handle
the buildings in the game as well.

I think I have decided on using a hybrid of my 2 trains of thought I will use a mixture of pre baked images for backdrops
and I will use baked images for the buildings and tiles for the doors and other interactable objects in the game world,
the things that can be attacked and broken by the player.  This will be how I will implement some of the lore because the
player can destroy stuff in the game and find random items they can pick up.  The lore pieces will be the only thing that
the player can pickup.

Working on this system, working on figuring out how I want to build the maps and levels of the game has brought up another
task that I need to accomplish in this game.  The thing I need to figure out before I move on to actually finishing the
map and level system is where are rendering calls going to be done?  After doing years of research on video game development
I have come across a concept over and over that I feel like works the best and that is the idea where each individual
system in the game only does what it is meant to do, an input system just handles input and tells you if a button has been
pressed, an audio system loads up the audio, and waits for you to tell it to play, and when you tell it to play it waits
for you to tell it to stop or to do something else.  A graphics system loads up the necessary graphics libraries and then
waits for you to tell it what to draw something to the screen.  You tell it what to draw and it does it.

It is now the end of the day and I have made some more changes to my game engine I have moved towards having all rendering
calls done within the graphics class, so the game class calls methods of the graphics class to add textures, and then
render them to the screen.  I have also made the decision to move away from the texture manager class and moved the handling
of texture resources to the graphics class, it creates a map and adds the textures to the map with a string name.  The render
methods will ask for the string name of the texture and it will find it in the map and then call a method to display it. This
will keep all rendering in graphics and all management of texture resources in their as well.

February 4th, 2016

Day 24 of Development
Today I don't anticipate getting a lot of development done because I have to work my normal job these next 4 days.  That being
said I am still going to try to work on things these next few days.  My goal for these next 4 days will be to try to figure out
the map, and level systems, do I need to use classes? or do I just need to use struct's?  I have some ideas for how I'm going 
to handle the levels and maps for the game I believe I will use a struct for the background layers that either move independent
of the player or move at a speed different from the player.  The BackgroundLayer struct will contain the name of the texture
to be able to access it from the map of textures, as well as a scroll speed to define what speed that layer moves at.  The
level will also contain a handle for the texture for the tilemap and an array or I may move that to a struct as well not sure
yet.  Each level will also contain an array that will define the placement of objects from within the game these will be the
interactable objects of the level, things the player can either break to potentially find items from or doors that the player
can use to go inside of buildings.  Something I need to explore more tomorrow is whether I want to use tiles for the buildings
or do I want to just build a layer similar to the other 2 background layers with pre baked images.

February 5th, 2016

Day 25 of Development
Today I did no programming as I had to work and had other obligations to take care of, however I did work on some pseudo ideas
for the map and level systems while I was on breaks at work.  I think I have figured out how I want to layout the structures
and classes of the various data for the map's and level's of the game.  The part that I am still working on is how I want to
handle rendering of map and levels where do I want the actual draw calls to happen.  I am going to be working on the logic for
this for a few days I anticipate.

February 6th, 2016

Day 26 of Development
Today I fixed a minor bug that was causing the game to not work on earlier versions of windows because of a compiler setting
I had set wrong.  I will test this out tomorrow when I'm at work to see if it is working now.  I also spent quite some time
today figuring out more about how I'm going to handle rendering and what not of the maps and levels of the game.  I believe I
have figured out how I"m going to handle the rendering with passing the graphics pointer to other systems to call rendering
methods of their own objects, I expect that at a later date I will figure out a better way to handle this situation. But for
the time being I will start with this and can always make some major tweaks to the system as I go.  This is what I anticipated
from the very beginning that I would make multiple iterative changes to the engine as I go along.  My goal is to get something
rendering on the screen hopefully this week and maybe get parallax scrolling working.  I realize that even once I can get a map
rendering correctly this doesn't mean that I'm that close to completion of this game their is so much to work out still.  But
getting this working correctly would be a huge step forward.

February 8th, 2016

Day 27 of Development
Today is another day of development I fixed another issue that I had forgotten to fix the other day so I'm going to go test it
today quick and then come back home and get back to working on the project I'm still working out all of the details of the map
and level system and I'm also trying to think things through for how I'm going to let the various systems draw their graphics
to the screen, as this will affect many systems down the road including HUD, the character and the maps to name a few.  I have
now verified that the game will work on all versions of windows back to windows 7 I haven't tested it any further back but I
feel comfortable calling it OK for now I will test it on a vista machine at a later date and see how well it works if it works
at all.

Thoughts on my game engine: so I am thinking about how I'm going to handle the drawing objects to the screen as well as loading
the textures into the map array that the graphics system is holding on to for the entire program.  So the game class will load
up the selected map, the map will take care of loading up all of the data for the levels, and the buildings for the levels(this
may change down the road if either loading times become a problem or if I find out that the game moves so well that I can move
the loading code outside of each subsystem and just do 1 giant load at the beginning of the startup of the game).  So when a
map is loaded up in the game class it will handle populating the data for the levels and the buildings in the levels, this way
once the map is loaded there is no more loading it can simply run and change what it draws based on where the character is at
and if they are in a building or just outside on the street.

So just to reiterate what my current plan is for the game when the game loads it will open a text file that will have the 
filenames of all of the textures of the game.  They name's will be loaded in and then loaded into the map through addtexture
which will also create the texture through the WIC load method.  Then all of the systems that want to use the textures will
hold the name of the texture in their structures and classes.  And when a draw call needs to be done it can be passed in
to the draw method and that texture will be drawn at whatever position is also passed in.

-= Resources =-

Buildings Text File
1. levelName				+string
2. TextureName				+string
3. columns					+int
4. rows						+int
5. numberOfFloors			+int
6. numberOfTriggerPoints	+int
7-N. TriggerPoints			+string, int, int
N-Z. CSV tile atlas data	+vector<int>

Level Text File
1. MapName						+string
2. citySkyLine.TextureName		+string
3. citySkyLine.ScrollSpeed		+float
4. cloudLayer.TextureName		+string
5. cloudLayer.ScrollSpeed		+float
6. Buildings.TextureName		+string
7. Buildings.ScrollSpeed		+float
8. numberOfBuildings			+int
9-N. Buildings TextFiles		+string

Map Text File
1. Name					+string
2. Level1 Text File		+string
3. Level2 Text File		+string
4. Level3 Text File		+string
5. Level4 Text File		+string

I have made a major amount of progress again tonight although I still do not have a level displaying to the screen I have
believe I have figured out the best way to handle buildings, levels, and maps in the game.  Tomorrow after I have finished
replacing my processor and motherboard and getting things working on my machine again I will finish my work on this code
the goal after I have completed this code is to build a test map, with 4 levels, and a set of buildings and to fill in the
text files that I need to build to build all of the assets and then test this whole thing out.  If I can get things displaying
then I will be able to get working on parallax scrolling and then getting a character displaying to the screen.  This will
put me very close to the goal for the Demo for this game and as soon as we get the demo done for the game then I can send
it to investors in order to get the company funded and then begin working on this thing full time.

February 9th, 2016

Day 28 of Development
Today I have not gotten any programming done yet as I made some upgrades to my desktop increasing my hardware quality to
help my computer run better.  I have spent the whole day so far getting the hardware working and then getting software
installed again.  I will be putting time into the engine tomorrow attempting to finish the building, map and level systems
of the game engine.  If everything goes smoothly I will attempt to build out the text files for the map, level and buildings,
in an effort to test out the code to make sure everything gets populated correctly and that I can access the data I need to
access correctly.  If this goes well and I'm able to successfully do this I will then move on to building out a full map
including the 4 levels, and a set of buildings in order to test out drawing the level on the screen.  Once I get this
accomplished I can move on to getting the actual character displaying on the screen as well and moving around.  This set
of tasks: verifying map, level and building are setup properly, getting a map displaying correctly on the screen and getting
the character displaying and moving correctly would be a huge milestone for this project and this company.  From there I will
have to get trigger points working as well so as to be able to move between levels and buildings.  I will also put a bunch of
my time into research of various topics both c++ game programming related, and just other game programming related topics
including Unreal Engine 4.

February 10th, 2016

Day 29 of Development
Today is another day of development I should get the map and level and building systems done and tested however I don't know how
much I will actually get done today because I am feeling the urge to be lazy and do other stuff that I want to do instead, maybe
play some games and what not and I will also probably study about Unreal Engine today because if I can learn enough about Unreal
Engine 4 maybe I can start doing game development in their instead which would lower the load put on my shoulders with having to
develop all systems on my own including the normal systems all games have to have.  The usage of Unreal Engine 4 may also make
deploying the game on other platforms including consoles a lot easier.  I am not saying that the answer is to use Unreal Engine
for the project but I am at least continuing my research into the engine so as to see how useful it is, this will be more useful
for 3D games and other advanced projects in the future.

February 11th, 2016

Day 30 of Development
I spent some time on this day doing more research on different ways to handle the data in the game, and handle level creation, 
because this is now my work week at my full time job I will probably not get any programming done over the next few days until
Monday again.  I have done a lot of contemplating today and I will use the information that I have researched and put it into
the engine.

February 12th, 2016

Day 31 of Development
Today was another work day and I did not get any programming done on the project, I did do more research like I did the previous
day as well.  I also had a discussion with my business partner about the project and about meeting up to discuss the project 
some point in the very near future.  We discussed the situation about the artist, when I got home I decided to try to get in
touch with our potential new artist for the company.  I was able to get a hold of his brother who is going to talk to him again
tomorrow and see what he wants to do and about meeting up with us.  I was able to get his phone number from him so after I get
a chance to talk to him face to face I will use that as my means of contact to get this project going.  We need to get our demo
feature set and plan locked down so that we can get it built and get the demo off to investors to get funding for the company.

February 13th, 2016

Day 32 of Development
Today I made some decisions about the future of the project and the engine running it the biggest decision I made was to change
over my plans for the engine.  The layers of the parallax scrolling of the levels will no longer be handled by pre baked images
we are going to switch over to using tile maps for all layers.  This will allow for better collision detection as well as make
things easier for loading and reduce the amount of resources for the game.  All tiles for the various layers and the various
maps will be located in a single texture and each level will have vector's of int that will index into the tiles of the texture.
The tiles will be pulled in from the texture and placed into an array of some kind that I will define later.  The index of the
vector int values will correspond to the index values of the array of tiles.

Checking for collisions as well as trigger points will be much easier because I can simply check the value of the specific tile
the player is about to step on to verify if it is a tile value of a known trigger point.  I think what I will do is make each
level have 4 layers:

Layer 1 will be the city skyline layer this will be the distant imagery to give the game the feel that it is in a real city,
this layer will move with the player at a different scroll speed.
Layer 2 will be cloud and other objects layer this will be a layer that scrolls on its own animating the clouds scrolling by.
Layer 3 will be the buildings layer this is the layer that the buildings will be shown in this layer will also move with the
player at a different scroll speed.
Layer 4 will be the trigger points and interactable objects layer this layer will be used to hold the actual trigger points
and objects the player can destroy, trash cans, and other stuff they can attack.

Displayed on top of the 4th Layer will be the crowd of people that are just walking by in the city, the players character,
and the bums that the player can chance running into and interact with to get info on where they need to go.

On top of that final layer of the game screen will be a layer of rain, and possibly dust effects to give the very gritty and
dark feeling to the scene.

February 16th, 2016

Day 33 of Development
Back to the grind today getting this game up and running and displaying a real map on the screen, the other day the company
had its first meeting with our potential lead artist we don't know at this point if he is going to sign on to the company or
not yet.  We will just have to wait and see what happens but regardless of what comes of that meeting I will move forward with
the plans to get the demo completed so we can get it off to investors.  Today I will get the changes implemented into the engine
for how to handle the levels of the game with moving over to using tile maps/atlas for defining the levels.  The levels will be
constructed of 32Pixels x 32Pixels tiles that will be stored in a single texture.  Each tiles position in the texture will
be tied to an index in the vector for the layers of the levels.  Along with the texture that holds the tile map/atlas tiles
there will be another texture similar to that one that just holds all the tiles used in any building within the game.  There
will be another texture that will contain all sprite positions for the main character, movement for all directions as well as
all the sprites for the various abilities the character has.  Another file will contain the sprites for the hobos/bums that will
appear in the game as well as the generic NPC sprites that will be the background people that will simply scroll across the 
screen to define the sea of people in the city.

Resource Files:

Map Levels Tile Atlas Texture
Buildings Tile Atlas Texture
Player Sprites
Helper Character Sprites and NPC Sprites

BuildingName.txt
1. levelName				+string
2. TextureName				+string
3. columns					+int
4. rows						+int
5. numberOfFloors			+int
6. numberOfTriggerPoints	+int
7-N. TriggerPoints			+string, int, int
8-N. CSV tile atlas data	+Vector<int>
9-N. Objects				+Vector<Objects>

LevelName.txt
1. Name						+string
2. Columns					+int
3. Rows						+int
4-N. Layer1					+Vector<int>
5-N. Layer2					+Vector<int>
6-N. Layer3					+Vector<int>
7-N. TriggerPoints			+Vector<TriggerPoint>
8-N. Objects				+Vector<Objects>
9-N. Buildings Text Files	+Vector<Building>

MapName.txt
1. Name						+string
2-N. Map Dossier			+string
3. Level1 Text File			+string
4. Level2 Text File			+string
5. Level3 Text File			+string
6. Level4 Text File			+string

February 18th, 2016

Day 34 of Development
Today was the first day in a few days that I put some real effort into writing some code for the project, I took the past
three days off to rest and clear my head as I was getting burnt out.  I am back into developing again today and will try
to spend as much time as I can every day from here on out on developing this project or another project for my portfolio.
I updated the levels, buildings, and maps with the changes that I made a previous day including changing things over to
using a tile map/atlas for all layers on each level of the game, I also added support for objects to the game, they will
be defined in the actual level in a separate layer in the tiled program and therefor loaded into the game through the same
text files that hold all other level data.  I am still waiting to test out this code to see how well it works until I can
build a test level, with our current prospect for an artist still being up in the air on weather he will join the team or
not; I am going to be forced to handle making a test map myself.  So one of the things I'm going to work on this week end
is to find royalty free art and tiles that I can use to build the levels in the Tiled program in order to test the game out.

On another side note something I want to write down in here that will be used later in development when I get further along
in the project but I'm afraid that if I don't document it I will forget what I'm thinking about doing to make it work.  The
designer for the team has talked about having the ability to use telekineses like abilities to control a bad guy, this ability
will be triggered if the bad guy has the same blood type as the main character.  He wants to be able to do this from outside of
the building when the player is on the street, well I have come up with an idea to make this work what I will do is when the
player gets signal that they can do this to somebody inside of a specific building if they press a specific button when right
in front of a window which we will define later, when they player presses that button the game will load the building that the
player is in front of and place the player at the bottom of the screen on what appears to be the street right in front of the
building.  Then they will have the ability to control the specific character inside of the building.  This will make it so this
whole system works but I don't have to figure out how to layer things the way the designer was talking about because I don't 
believe it is possible to do things the way he talked about doing without moving the game over to 3D and that is just not a very
practical idea for this project with me as the only developer and us already having a challenge getting a 2D artist let alone
a 3D artist for the team.

February 22nd, 2016

Day 35 of Development
I am working today on getting the map, map sections, and buildings code re worked out so that I can get things to load easily
in the game engine.  Also I'm trying to make sure that however I handle the code for those systems and how I setup the text
file requirements for the maps I have to make sure that it is easy for Sam or Michael to work on the maps for the game.
Because if I am required to do all of the conversion it could slow progress down when developing the maps.  With the maps
being the biggest part of the gameplay aspect of the game.  I have also made a decision to change the code so that their is
now no restrictions on the size of the maps, as in the number of Map sections that can be made for each map, and all other
areas where a size restriction used to exist.  The only real restriction on how big the maps, or the buildings or the map
sections can be is based what the hardware can handle.  Which leads to another task we will have to tackle at some point before
the project is complete and that is what is the minimum hardware spec for playing the game?

One question that I need to resolve is do I keep using my original plan of using a single container for textures a map that all
textures are loaded into or do I have each map have a container that it uses for its own textures.  And then I could have a 
separate container for the textures related to the company logo, and the main screen, and the map select screen and everything
else that doesn't belong to the maps?

No the more that I think about things the more I realize that I need to use the map and I will load any and all textures that
are needed at any given time, when a map is used for the first time its textures are added to the map and then left in there.
Unless we figure out that loading all textures into memory at one time causes performance issues and then I can tailor things
differently as needed.

One positive note on the progress of the game and the company as a whole is that our artist has created a logo for the company,
this makes us a real company and this I will admit scares me greatly right now because I don't know if I'm truly ready to make
this happen and to take this task on 100%.  The biggest problem I am having is that with everything that is happening in my life
between my family life, and my friends I have nobody to talk to and to confide in and to talk to about things.

February 23rd, 2016

Day 36 of Development
Today I have been doing some heavy thinking about the future of this project and I think I finally have my head back in the game
about getting this project done and about the future of this company.  All that matters now is getting this done and funded so I
can stop working for somebody else and start working for myself.

I have made a decision about the project I'm going to make a change again to the map system, I have decided to switch back to
using pre baked images for a couple of the layers of the map, namely Layer's 1 and 2 I have changed back to this because I have
decided that it doesn't make sense to use the time map for those 2 layers because they can't really be constructed by anybody
but the artist for the project.  So I need to change the system to accommodate this, so from here on out there is going to be
Layer 1 a city skyline layer, Layer 2 will be a cloud layer, Layer 3 will be a tile map atlas for the buildings of the level,
Layer 4 will be a layer of objects which will just be made up of a set of data, namely a position, a tile index into the
tilemap, and an object type.  Along with that layer will also be the Trigger Points of the level which will define the points on
the map that will cause events to take place in the game.

February 24th, 2016

Day 37 of Development
Today I am continuing my work on the project, getting the map, map section, and buildings code worked out and working so that I
can take another step forward in this project and get this demo done so that I can get funding and get this company functional.

February 25th, 2016

Day 38 of Development
Today I have continued working on the map code and figuring out how I want the data to get drawn into the engine and making sure
that however I do it there is plenty of documentation so that everybody can contribute to making sure things work correctly.  I
also updated the documentation for the demo I think that I have everything outlined in it that we need to get done for this demo
to be considered ready for the investors.  I will have a meeting with Sam tomorrow about the company and hopefully we can have
a meeting with Michael in the next week to discuss the final plan for the demo so I can get him working on art.  I have to work
the next few days so I will probably not get much done, however I am making it a requirement for myself that I finalize the 
plans for the text file resources that outline the buildings, and map sections and the map itself by the end of the weekend. I
do not have to get it 100% implemented and tested but I have to get it defined out on paper so that this next week I can get
it implemented and hopefully tested by the end of the week so that I know how to construct the data for the levels.  Once I get
it so that the data is pulled in correctly then I can work on drawing code to get it displaying on the screen and hopefully get
it scrolling correctly as well.  I will have to make some more of my amazing programmer art in order to test this all out.  If
I can get the map sections displaying on the screen properly and get things scrolling correctly then I can hook up trigger
points and test out buildings and if I can accomplish that then the demo will be very well on its way to being done.  But first
I have to make it through the next 3 days and get the map text files defined how they are going to be constructed by the end of
the day on Sunday.

February 26th, 2016

Day 39 of Development
I am continuing my work on figuring out all the details of the demo project and the details for the system for the map, building
and map sections of the engine.  The other piece I accomplished is I have decided on a set of Milestone Goals that take me out
to the end of March.
Milestone 1 Complete design of map, map section, and building code by February 29th, 2016
Milestone 2 Complete drawing and update code for maps by March 7th, 2016
Milestone 3 Complete basic player class by March 21th, 2016
Milestone 4 Complete player rendering and update code and make certain I can get him animating by March 31st, 2016

February 28th, 2016

Day 40 of Development
Today I had to work again but I was able to complete some of the design changes for the engine, related to the map, map section,
and building part of the engine.  I will complete the first Milestone objective by the end of the day tomorrow.

February 29th, 2016

Day 41 of Development
Today I am working on completing Milestone 1 Objective which is to Complete design of map, map section, and building code, this
task is very imperative to the progression of the demo reaching completion.  I am beginning today with finalizing the design for
the text files representing maps, map sections, and buildings.

MapName.txt
1.) Name
2.) NumberOfMapSections
3-N.) Map Sections 1 - NumberOfMapSections MapSection#.txt

MapSection#.txt
1.) NumberOfLayers
2.) Layer 1 - NumberOfLayers (textureName, autoScroll, scrollSpeed)
3-N.) Objects(Name, Type, tileIndex, Position)
4-N.)TriggerPoints (Name, Type, position, moveToPosition)

MapSection#Building#.txt
1.) textureName
2.) Columns
3.) Rows
4.) NumberOfFloors
5-N.) Floor# tile index data
6-N.) floorObjects (Name, Type, tileIndex, Position)
7-N.) TriggerPoints (Name, Type, Position, moveToPosition)

At this point I'm going to lock in this as the final format for the text files, by the end of the project this may change but
for the demo this will be the final format for the text files related to those resources.  I will work out the code to make
loading these files into the engine possible.  The goal for today is to complete the code for loading this into the engine.
If I get far enough and still have time then I will try to test out the code to verify that I can load the values into the
engine properly.  Which will lead into Milestone 2 which is completion of the drawing and update code of the map system.

I did not complete getting the code written to handle the maps, map sections and buildings by the end of the night but I will
work very hard to complete it tomorrow and move on to working on the draw and update code.

March 2nd, 2016

Day 42 of Development
I have been distracted this past week with other tasks and problems in my life but I am going to get back on track and complete
this first milestone and move right into the second milestone and get it done by its due date.

Today I was not able to complete the actual code for loading the map into the system however I did complete the pseudocode for
the map loading system and all I need to do is convert it over to actual code tomorrow or some point this weekend.  With the
changes to my life that I am planning in the next week I may have to push out my Milestone deadlines 1 week each so I will set
the new milestone goals as:

Milestone 1 Complete design of map, map section, and building code by March 6th, 2016
Milestone 2 Complete drawing and update code for maps by March 13th, 2016
Milestone 3 Complete basic player class by March 20th, 2016
Milestone 4 Complete player rendering and update code and make certain I can get him animating by March 31st, 2016

I will complete the requirements for Milestone 1 by this coming Sunday so I will have the code written for the map, map section
and building systems of the game engine.

March 13th, 2016

Day 43 of Development
Today is the first day in a couple of weeks that I have gotten back to work on this project, I have spent the past couple weeks
handling personal issues as well as doing heavy research into Unreal Engine 4 and seeing if it is a viable option to switch the
engine over.  I have decided that the amount of work and the learning curve involved in learning Unreal Engine 4's paper 2D
stuff would be to much for the project it would push the development way off course and push it to far back from completion.
I am going to move forward with this engine and get the demo up and running.  Unfortunately because of my side track I will
have to push back my Milestone dates for the project.  So a new milestone schedule will be:

Milestone 1 Complete converting pseudocode for map, map section and building over to C++ code by March 20th, 2016
Milestone 2 Complete drawing and update code for maps by March 27th, 2016
Milestone 3 Complete basic player class by April 3rd, 2016
Milestone 4 Complete player rendering and update code and have the player animating on the screen by April 10th, 2016
Milestone 5 Complete design and code for game start up sequence, title screen, and map select by April 30th, 2016

March 14th, 2016

Day 44 of Development
Happy Pi day I am going to be working on the project all day and work very hard to get this pseudocode converted over for the first
Milestone for the new Milestone schedule.

March 15th, 2016

Day 45 of Development
Yesterday I ran into a little problem with the pseudocode for the map system, I realized that the way I had it setup wasn't correct
for how the maps are constructed and how the text files containing the data for the maps are built.  I worked on figuring out how
I needed to change things and I'm continuing this today.  I am also trying to work on an overall plan for the game; figuring out
the general lifetime of the game so that I don't program myself into a corner with a specific system and have to re work it later.
I'm trying to avoid wasting time on simple mistakes that I can avoid now by doing a better job of planning.

More changes to resource layout

MapName.txt
1.) Name
2.) NumberOfMapSections
3-N.) Map Sections 1 - NumberOfMapSections MapSection#.txt

MapSection#.txt
1.) NumberOfLayers
2.) Layer 1 - NumberOfLayers (textureName, autoScroll, scrollSpeed)
3.) NumberOfObjects 
4-N.) Objects(Name, textureName, Type, tileIndex, Position)
5.) NumberOfTriggers
6-N.)TriggerPoints (Name, Type, position, moveToPosition)

MapSection#Building#.txt
1.) textureName
2.) Columns
3.) Rows
4.) NumberOfFloors
5-N.) Floor# tile index data
6.) NumberOfObjects
7-N.) floorObjects (Name, Type, tileIndex, Position)
8-N.) NumberOfTriggers
9-N.) TriggerPoints (Name, Type, Position, moveToPosition)

March 17th, 2016

Day 46 of Development
I worked today to finish converting the pseudocode over to engine code for the Map, Map Section, and Building
sections of the engine.  Tomorrow I am going to test out the code to verify that the data in the text files
gets taken in correctly into the engine and populates all variables correctly.  If this all goes well and no
big issues then I will start working on the Update and Draw code for the Map, Map Section, and Building systems.

March 18th, 2016

Day 47 of Development
Today I started off the day with the plan to test out the Map, Map Section and Building code that I had completed
converting yesterday.  I was able to build the necessary text files and I was able verify that the data was drawn
into the engine and populated the variables correctly.  The next step in this project and the next piece on my to
do list for today and this week is to begin writing the pseudocode for the draw and update parts of the engine.

March 19th, 2016

Day 48 of Development
Today I worked on moving around some of the code and changing a couple systems to use text files for loading assets,
I also made some decisions about the level creation of the project.  I am going to develop an in game level editor,
that both the designer and the artist for the company can use for creating the map sections of the game.  This will
alleviate the concern I had about how to construct the text files behind the actual maps, and all its parts.  Instead
of using other tools to construct things and then having to construct the text files correctly which could lead to
errors which could lead to errors if they don't construct the files correctly, I will have them use the in game editor
for constructing the levels of the game and then the game engine will write out the text files correctly so that the
engine can read them in to play.

March 20th, 2016

Day 49 of Development
Today I am going to begin working on bringing over the console command system from another project as well as begin the
work on the in game editor for the engine.  But now that I think about it more I should get the console command system
moved over and then get the rendering of levels working because before I can make the editor to work on levels I need
to get levels displaying on the screen.

March 23rd, 2016

Day 50 of development
Tonight I'm getting back to working on the changes I have decided on for the engine including the in game editor, the
console window for using the in game editor and other stuff related to it.  I am working on getting a quad to display
on the screen correctly so I can use it to draw text to it for the console command system.  I am ending the night 
tonight without completing my task of getting the quad displaying on the screen.  For whatever reason I can't get it
to display the quad no matter what I do, and even trying to use the exact code from the examples online doesn't seem
to work in this situation.  I will have to investigate even more tomorrow to see why this is not working.

March 24th, 2016

Day 51 of Development
Today I'm working on getting the console to display on the screen and to get the ability to type text into it working.
I've been able to successfully get the console displaying on the screen with no issues but when I have moved on to
getting the text displaying on the screen on the console window I'm having some complications that I am working out
right now and I'm trying to get it done before the night is over.  So at this point my original Milestone goals for
the project are shot, I think that I will just set a big Milestone goal for the project and just work on that for now.
The milestone will be related to getting the editor implemented and working that means the goal is to have the console
window showing and accepting inputs, and when the developer enters the correct command edit level it will cause the
level editor to load and certain tools will show up on the screen for editing levels and it will start accepting
commands related to level editing.  This also means I have to look into being able to open an open file dialog in
a windows build so you can select images, and cause those images to be copied over to the correct folder and folders
have to be able to be created by the program.

Basically the plan is to make it so that when the level editor is used the person building the level will be able to
create the level graphically and the engine will write out the correct text files that the engine knows how to load.
This also means I have to get maps displaying on the screen and trigger points, working so that after you build the
levels in the game editor you can then save it and just load it into the game and test it out right away.  To verify
that everything works correctly and the way you want it to, things scroll at the correct speed, and everything else.

Milestone 1: By April 30th 2016 I will have the level editor for the project implemented into the engine.

March 25th, 2016

Day 52 of Development
Today I spent my time going back and forth on whether to use a pre built system for a console window for the engine and
primarily the level editor or to build my own.  At the end of the day I'm leaning towards building my own because all of
the systems that I have found out on the internet seem to bulky for what it is that I'm trying to accomplish for this
project.  Plus with building it myself I get the benefit of furthering my programming skills and I have full control
of how it is laid out and can re use this system in future projects so this will be another item that I will add to my
tool box of programming algorithms.

March 26th, 2016

Day 53 of Development
Today I am working on getting the console and editor integration working, I have changed the class name for the console
over to just level editor and I'm going to incorporate everything into that class... maybe.  I may change my mind on this
topic later but I believe I will put them together but maybe not... hmmm I must think this situation over and will decide
in the next few days on how I want to handle this.  Putting everything into one class may make things easier for now but
will cause me to create a bloat class that will make it harder to parse parts out for future projects.  OK it has been
decided crazy how fast I change my mind huh? I'm going to use 1 class for the level editor and a separate class for the
console, this will allow me to pass the console on to other projects that maybe don't use the same level editor as this
game does.

March 28th, 2016

Day 54 of Development
Today I got some more work done on the console window I now have the system working for displaying the console, and also
the part working for accepting input and displaying it on the screen as the user is typing it in.  I still have some more
work to get done on this because right now when you press the enter key it keeps the same string on the screen still and
wont clear the prompt for the entry and it doesn't display the text that has been added to the history correctly which I
think has to do with how I'm adding the text to the history and how I am positioning it on the screen because briefly I
saw a string of text display on the screen and it scrolled down the screen until it disappeared off the screen.  I also
have a demo project I found online called TextConsole that I need to look at and see how it works and see if I can't use
some of the concepts from it for displaying multiple lines of text on the screen in a confined area of the screen. This is
going to be one of the many things I will be handling tomorrow along with all other personal tasks I must take care of as
well.

March 29th, 2016

Day 55 of Development
Today when I had time to sit down and do some programming I was able to get the issues I was having yesterday resolved, I
was able to get it so that after a command is entered in it adds, it to the history, and clears the prompt back out. I still
need to work on the display of the history on the screen after the first few lines of the history are displayed it starts to 
spread the lines out further and further apart each line.  This is one of the many tasks I will be working on tomorrow.  The
biggest of the tasks that I need to resolve tomorrow is figure out how to handle function pointers and adding the commands
to the console system.  I want to make it so that the console itself does not know anything about the commands it's processing
it just grabs commands and calls the function for that command through the function pointer or whatever system I choose to
use for the engine.  Once I can get this system working so I can handle the whole console commands being entered and get the
history displaying correctly and working properly because I also want it so that you can press up and it will grab previous
commands so you can use old commands again without typing them in again.  Once I can get that system working then I can move
on to working out all the details of the level editor making it so that the rest of the team can start to work on building
the levels for the game.

March 30th, 2016

Day 56 of Development
Today I am working on getting the console stuff wrapped up and then beginning work on the level editor for the game engine. I 
have been able to get the console stuff finished so far today getting the ability to handle commands built and making sure that
the code for the history works correctly displaying it at the right spot and everything.  My next goal now is to work on the 
level editor this is the next huge item on my list of things to complete.  At this point I think the order of how I'm going to
tackle this is first figuring out how to open an open file dialog box to grab texture files, getting it to copy the files over
to a specific location, and then storing the data correctly in the game engine.  Once I accomplish that I will get the on screen
stuff displaying the way I want it to be for when editing a level.  Then get the graphics for the level displaying on the screen
in the correct layer order as they are loaded.  From there I need to figure out mouse controls, and being able to place objects
on the screen with the mouse.

March 31st, 2016

Day 57 of Development
Today I have decided that I'm going to take a side track from the level editor and work on figuring out the broader plan for the
engine and all of its sub systems.  Try to get a plan put together for how everything is going to be put together on in the end.
Figuring out things like game state, startup sequence and things like that.  If I am able to get that part completed and then I
will move on to the level editor today.  I need to take a good long hard look at the current state of the game engine and make
sure that I have all my current systems in place correctly so that I don't run into any giant road blocks later in this project.
The reality is that I have time to polish this project truth be told this project is probably going to just be a portfolio piece
to help get me a job at another game company in another state because I have a feeling that eventually the other people on this
team will get tired of waiting on this project and or I will get tired of seeing no progress from the others on the team... But
if I turn this project into a polished game I stand a very good chance of getting a job offer from a large game company out in
another state later this year.

Questions I need to resolve for this project:
Should I allow various systems that need to draw things on the screen to access the actual graphics system directly or do I create
some kind of a command system within the graphics system and when another system wants to send drawing commands they send the
request into the drawing system and it will use the command system with a container that will use a first in first out system where
each frame of the game will process whatever commands are in the container.

OK I have already answered my own question about what I'm going to do I need to figure out how to write out the code and logic for
a command system where each individual system will subscribe to a specific type of Commands that the command system will process.

This is my new #1 task completing the Commands System, followed by the Game State system being 2nd, and from their I think my 3rd in
line should be get the Game State system actually used in the game and get the startup process working, so Banner Parade, gameplay
video, title screen, menu title screen, and get everything in the game engine even if they are just stubbed out before I go back to
working on the level editor.  So the task for tomorrow and until it is completed is the Commands System.

April 1st, 2016

Day 58 of Development
Today I am going to work on the Commands system or whatever I choose to call it in the end figuring out all the details of this
system and getting it implemented into the engine. I have some new ideas for this system that I'm working out and I will work on
this more tomorrow and I expect it will be on my priority list for the foreseeable future.

April 2nd, 2016

Day 59 of Development
The plan for the day is to begin working on stubbing out the code for the Command System of the game engine. The plan I currently
have for the system is each system will register themselves with the command system and the command system will hold a pointer to
every systems main object. Then when I want to pass a message to a specific system it will be sent through the game class to the
command class the command class will call the command processing method for each subsystem directly and pass the data along that
the system needs. In the game engine the plan has for the most part been that Win32_window is the entry point for the game engine
as soon as it creates the game object and starts it running it passes control over to the game class and every other system of the
engine has an object that the game class controls and contains in it's class.  The plan was to not have other systems know about
each other in the engine because making it so that each system points to each system can create some very chaotic code and it is
not very professional and if I want to be taken serious as a game programmer I need to come up with a solution that is a more
elegant and professional.

Getting back to the task at hand so I can't use pointers to every system in every system because it creates chaotic code but
another option that I think will create a much more clean engine but will be complicated to implement uses the Command System where
it has an object from each system and each system has a command system object pointer to pass commands to the command system and a
method in each system that processes commands from the command system. So to implement this system correctly the system will contain
an object for each individual system in the engine including a pointer to the game class itself.  Each system will contain a pointer
to the command system object that will allow it to pass messages to other systems and each system will contain a method that
processes commands that where passed to it.  I don't pretend to know if I am handling this 100% the way I should be or if how I'm
doing this is professional but I'm going to use this on this project and on other projects I will continue to grow my skill set.

April 4th, 2016

Day 60 of Development
Today I am beginning to shell out the Command system under its new name Events I decided to name it this because although it will
be at first only used for passing graphics commands around between the various systems I do plan to in the future grow it into
a full events system for the engine and in future projects will be used and modified into a system for each game. I did not get
anything done on the project today because of outside interference but I will not let this be a problem anymore starting tomorrow.
I will be getting the Events system completed tomorrow no matter what.

April 5th, 2016

Day 61 of Development
I'm scratching today again because of reasons that I'm not proud of but I will do what I must to fix this and do better tomorrow.

April 7th, 2016

Day 62 of Development
With certain other distractions now being out of the way I will be moving forward with this project and make some great progress
towards my ultimate goal. I am playing around with the idea that maybe I don't actually need an event system or command system
because of how my game engine works right now passing around a pointer to multiple systems for graphics may actually be OK in
this instance.  I will keep going without developing the event system for now and if I get further along and find that I really
need to fix it for some reason than I will do it at that point. I'm going to do some more thinking and planning out of things and
if after I do this I feel like this system needs to be implemented then I will do it otherwise I'll move on without it.

April 14th, 2016

Day 63 of Development
It has been a rough few weeks and I have let outside distractions in my life affect my ability to get this project moving forward,
but this is changing today my goal for today is that by the end of the night by the time I lay down and call it a night I will get
a map displaying on the screen and get the parallax scrolling effect working.  I don't anticipate getting the level editor finished
or getting a character displaying or trigger points working or anything like that but I will have a single section of a map working
on screen and scrolling correctly including with auto scrolling for certain layers auto scrolling.  Once I can get this part of the
logic working I can move on to getting the level editor working so that Sam and Michael can test out building levels in the game so
we can get the demo moving forward.

I set out today with the goal to get a map displaying on the screen by the end of the night but I am not able to complete what I
had set out on for today.  I realize this means I did not complete my goal for today but I will live with it.  I have gotten some
code written for displaying the map on the screen, and for updating the current map on the screen.  I am working out some bugs and
some details for how I'm going to handle certain aspects of displaying the map, what the current position the map is in so on and
so forth. I anticipate being able to get a map displaying on the screen by the end of the day tomorrow as I'm very close to
accomplishing this tonight.

One thing I need to solve is figuring out how to handle scrolling the image that is larger than the game window that I am displaying
it in.  I know this is a simple task but tonight I'm drawing a blank as to how to handle this.  I may have to wait until I get my
internet connection working again tomorrow night in order to finish this because there are some great examples out there that I can
draw upon on how to handle this but I need to be able to get online in order to download them and look at their code.

April 15th, 2016

Day 64 of Development
I plan to get some things done for this project today but I don't know how much I will be able to complete and how soon I'll be
able to start working on it.  A lot of what I'm trying to figure out I need to get access to some reference that I don't have here
at the house I need the internet to download the code for some examples that show how to do what I'm trying to do.  So I will very
likely have to wait until my internet gets turned on some point today in order to move forward.  But that being said once it is up
and running I will get to work on this project and work very hard today and the rest of the weekend when I'm not working at my job
to get further on this project.

I was able to get some work done but today moving towards getting the map displaying on the screen I will work on this more tomorrow
to reach my goal of getting it displaying and moving on the screen by the end of the weekend.

April 21st, 2016

Day 65 of Development
Today I am working on cleaning up some of the code trying to figure out how to get the code for displaying the map on the screen
working and getting the update code working as well the goal is that tomorrow I will find some graphics that I can use for testing
purposes and get the test graphics displaying on the screen correctly and also scrolling properly both from auto scroll and from
user input.

April 22nd, 2016

Day 66 of Development
Today I am working on the code for displaying and updating the map on the screen and my goal for today is to get some test graphics
to display on the screen and to update correctly.  If I am able to complete this successfully I will then move on to work on the
level editor in the engine.  Getting that piece of the engine functional would be a major accomplishment towards completion of this
engine. Because this would allow for easier construction of the text files used by the engine for loading the content of the game.

I just ran into a complication related to a system I was worried about earlier I can't use a global graphics object in the map
system because of link error's this comes back to my question about developing a messaging system for passing commands to and from
various systems of the engine.  Maybe this is the point when I need to step back and figure out this system. This is a problem that
once I solve it will bring the engine back to my original design where the game class is the only class that contains the other
systems and it passes data to the various engine support systems and then they pass commands back.

April 23rd, 2016

Day 67 of Development
So today I am working on figuring out how I'm going to handle the problem I'm having with the link errors with using a global
object, I'm still not 100% sure how I'm going to handle this but I will continue to do research and I have even reached out to an
online forum for developers and I'm waiting for a response on suggestions on what to do.

OK so I have managed to figure out what I needed to do for the whole graphics system variable and it does not involve me using a
very difficult and rather useless command system like I was thinking that I was going to need I am using a global extern defined
object to the graphics system this way I'm no longer passing a large pointer around which is a very costly action so I have 
learned over time.  Now every system that needs to send graphics commands can do so as they need to because keeping all draw
commands to just the game class is simply not possible considering how I am building all these systems.  So now that I have been
able to resolve this issue I can now move forward with the project I am going to make it my gaol tomorrow to find the test 
graphics and attempt to draw a map on the screen with scrolling.  This will as I stated on other days be a big milestone in the
project because this moves towards having a demo level ready to show to investors.

April 28th, 2016

Day 68 of Development
Today I'm getting back to work on the project again I'm taking inventory of what I need to accomplish to get the demo done for
investors.
To Demo Completion:
- Get Map displaying on the screen, animating and moving through user interaction, also need to get trigger points working for
  moving from map section to map section, and from map section to buildings and from floor to floor, and from buildings to map
  section.
- Write the Player class and figure out the abilities for the character, get the character animating, will use component design
  pattern for this class for the abilities of the player.
- Write the Enemy and Boss classes and get them displaying on the screen with animations and abilities I may use a similar class
  structure and design pattern as the Player class for this.
- Figure out the blood meter HUD piece and how it will play into the game with it basically being a timer that goes down based
  on the players actions which will tie into the Player abilities each one will have a cost of blood as well as movement will
  have some tie to a cost on the blood meter.

So today I got to work on testing out the map displaying and updating section of the demo and I am very happy to say that I was
able to get it to display on the screen and yeah it updates.  The auto scroll feature works great, there are some tweaks that
would need to be made to the code related to how fast things scroll and what not but regardless it works.  There are some
minor tweaks and improvements I feel that I could make to the code for the map going over code to make sure that there are
no redundant checks or any other stuff that could be wasting processor cycles on useless crap.

Completing this has however brought up an interesting issue with my keyboard code which after doing some research I have come to
the conclusion that I may need to scrap using the DirectXTK keyboard entry code for another way to handle this but I need to
do more research on the topic and make sure that my hypothesis is correct.  I will do this more tomorrow as well as cleaning up
the map code to make it more stable and work correctly.

So I went back and checked things out as well as some documentation and found out what I needed to do to make this work correctly
and was able to get the keyboard code working correctly as well as the gamePad code.  So I am happy to say that I have a map
displaying on the screen and correctly updating on the screen as well both auto scroll and keyboard entry works correctly.  I do
need to work on the code some more to work out some weird bugs and abnormalities related to moving the actual layers when in auto
scroll and not but that is something that I'm sure I can figure out fairly easy.  I think what I need to do is sit down and try to
write out the pseudocode for that method and figure out the best way to handle it.  Considering the fact that all I did was write
the code for that method as well as the draw method on the fly without taking the time to logically write it out I think it is
pretty cool that it worked the first time I did it.

So I'm done for tonight with a big step in the right direction I will continue my progress tomorrow when I get home from all of the
running I must do after work.

April 30th, 2016

Day 69 of Development
Today I am starting out with changing the resolution of the window to a full 1920 x 1080 and made the window open up maximized for
now eventually I will add the options menu where you can either make the fullscreen with no tool bars or anything or windowed where
you can select the dimensions of the window.

One of the things I want to add to my to do list both for the Demo and just in general for the engine is to write a class for all
the input related things, even though I'm using the DirectXTK's input classes and what not I still want to write a class around
that system to control things the way I want to control them including access to the input functionality.  By doing this I can
then have a single gateway to the input stuff instead of using a global extern variable.  The global will work for now to get
things tested and working but I need to move away from that for all systems of the engine.

Things I need to research and get books on:
- Design Patterns
- Object Oriented Program Design
- Building an RPG with Unreal Engine 4

May 2nd, 2016

Day 70 of Development
Today I am spending more time researching Design Patterns as they pertain to game programming to figure out if there are any design
changes I should make to the engine as well as figuring out how I'm going to handle some of the new systems to make sure everything
blends together in this engine seamlessly and try to prevent bugs and issues in the future in this project as well as other projects
that I may undertake in my programming career.

-=Command=-
I need to research the -=Command=- Design Pattern more and see how I can implement it into my own code, I see a use for it in the
input end of my engine, as well as my Console Command system that I built this would do what I originally wanted it to do in a much
better bug free way.  This will require me to re write that class but in the end if it makes my code more robust and the engine more
stable and clear than it will benefit me in the end.  This is a part of developing video games understanding the benefits of re
writing code for systems that you have already implemented if it means saving you hours of problems in the future then the couple
hours it will take to re write and implement it will all be worth it.

May 4th, 2016

Day 71 of Development
So I made some changes after doing some heavy reading on design patterns, the reading I did enlightened me why using the singleton
class design is a bad idea especially with global variables.  So I went back to doing things the way I was originally doing it with
passing pointers to systems that need them which I have learned is actually not a bad thing because it controls the systems better
and forces you to see where your data is going plus it makes it easier to trace bugs.  I'm hoping to take some of the advice and
design pattern ideas that I have read and put them into use for certain systems in the engine.

I still want to figure an actual input class, and now I think I need to add an audio class so that various systems that need to
play sound effects can do so but I need to research design patterns more to figure out how I want to handle this in the engine.

May 7th, 2016

Day 72 of Development
Today I'm going over the general engine design for this game to figure out what I need to change to move this project from just
a test of what I'm capable of doing to an actual production game.  Things like figuring out finite state machines for handling
the game state concept.  Figuring out the startup process banner parade, and all of that fun stuff, these things are concepts
that I need to not only understand from a logical point of view but I need to know how to implement them by myself because I
have nobody else to rely on for programming tasks.

My next steps for this project that I need to work on tomorrow is moving everything related to Audio into its own class, and
move anything related to Input over to its own class.  I need to research design patterns more and figure out how to write a
class where other systems can subscribe to it.  I want to make it so that for input the actual commands that are watched and
checked for are added to an Input Que or some other container that will not be cleared out they will simply be checked for
each and every frame of the game.  So basically when a system needs to check for right arrow for example it will pass in a
request for the right arrow to be watched and it will have a function pointer to the function that will process the Command.

This will definitely be the Command Design pattern that I was reading about the other day and this will also play into making
the game so that the controls can be bound to various events in the options menu.

Also I want to test out the functionality of using a timer for certain events, the ones that I'm going to test out specifically
tomorrow will be the startup banner parade.  Once I get that working I want to get the code working for the title screen with
loading and the text on the screen and the menu options being selectable with each one firing off an event and being handled
properly.

May 9th, 2016

Day 73 of Development
Yesterday I worked on this project and forgot to write an update in my notes about the project, yesterday I began working on
moving the Input and Audio code over from the main Game Class to their own classes.  I moved everything over and started work
on the Input class and wiring up all of the connections again.  I have the input class working and I even have things moving
on screen.

Today I'm working on fixing some issues that I was running into with the new input system the map would move like I asked it
to but it wouldn't stop moving as soon as the button was released.  I have figured out how to fix this I changed the map that
is used for input so that each function pointer in the map has to accept a bool variable, even if it is not used which is the
case with a few of the instances of using this it still must accept it.  The methods that need it take the value in and if it
is a true value it moves if its false then it stops movement, as True equals the key is pressed and False equals the button
was released.

Tomorrow I need to work on the Audio system and get that up and working again.

May 10th, 2016

Day 74 of Development
Today the plan is to get working on the Audio system and try to get it completed or at least most of the way completed.  I
also need to work on the Input System in the engine more because I want to get Game Pad working in the engine as well.

I have been able to get the Audio system working and implemented and I have been able to test the code to verify that it
works exactly the way I want it to work in the game.  There are some things that I may tweak on the settings for Audio
later in the development process, things like changing the sound volume and effect volume I may even try to link those
2 values to a slider in the options menu.

I feel like the next thing that I would like to focus my attention on figuring out is how to setup the whole banner
parade event process in code.  So that each banner image is left on the screen for X number of seconds and then the
next one is displayed on the screen ending with the title screen and main menu.  Along with this I need to figure out
the title screen with being able to select the menu options and having them change the state of the game to whatever.
New Game would bring the player to the new game state which would be a special map specifically for the opening story.
Continue Game would open a saved game selection menu where you can select your save and then it would open the spot
that the player saved at.  Options would open the Options menu where the player can change certain game settings that
we expose to the player.

May 13th, 2016

Day 75 of Development
Today all I have done was work on my lovely programmer art and play with certain settings related to the map displaying
on the screen for the demo.  This was just so that I can have something to show when I meet up in a week.  I will get
to work tomorrow on the tasks that I have set to be complete in earlier entries in these notes.

May 14th, 2016

Day 76 of Development
Today I'm going to get working on the startup process of the game, I want to get the banner parade and the title screen
mocked up and working in code so that all I have to do is replace art assets when I get them and it will work.  This
will bring the demo very close to being ready to show to people as soon as I get the art.

I did not get any code written today but I did get some design work done for the new event system for the engine I feel
like I should get to coding this tomorrow and will hopefully have it successfully implemented and functional in a few
days time.  This system will allow me to setup the startup process as well as any other events in the game that the
lifespan of the event is time based.  I may be able to extend the event system in the future for non time based events
but I'm not sure if I will or if I will write another system specifically for that.

May 15th, 2016

Day 77 of Development
I have spent most of the day today relaxing and getting my head back into this project I feel burnt out from programming
this engine and working a full time job.  None the less I'm going to try to get something done on the engine before I go
to bed tonight.

On a side note thinking about the Event, Event Manager, and Event Type stuff has me thinking about the Finite State
Machine pattern that I will probably use to define the various states of my game.

Game State:
Game States BannerParade, MainMenu, NewGame, LoadSavedGame, OptionsMenu, OnExit(which will also be tied into an event when
window is closed.), Paused, Tutorial, MapSelectMenu, 

Event and Event Manager Notes:

An Event will consist of an Event Type that will define the type of event that is taking place, in larger games the event
type will probably turn into something more elaborate but in this project seeing as how the scope of the game is not very
large I think I will simply use an enumeration to handle this value.  However in order to prevent redundant data because
of all of the systems that need to know about Events and Event Types I think I will place the EventType Enumeration in
the Includes.h header file this way it gets included only once and each system will be able to know about it that needs
to know about it.

EventType: TimedEvent, (add more as needed?)

So for the time being I am going to start with just the TimedEvent Type and get that part working as well as begin working
on the FSM for the game state.  These are my 2 main areas I need to focus on getting implemented correctly and working so
I can move on to other gameplay and other systems.  Getting these 2 systems coded and working correctly will put the state
of this project much further along.

May 16th, 2016

Day 78 of Development
Today is a work day but I'm going to work hard to get more work on the Event System and the Game State system done. I will
spend my free time today at work thinking about how to implement things and spend my time this evening implementing things.

Notes From Work Today:
Event Class
	EventType m_eventType - Enumerated value
	int		  m_eventID
	virtual bool execute() = 0; - if return value is false more processing if true then event is done and ready to end.
	void functionCallback()??? need to research how to implement a callback function that will get called when the event
	is about to be destroyed.

TimedEvent : public Event
	EventType m_eventType - inherited
	int m_eventID		  - inherited
	double m_timeLimit	  - holds the amount of time before event death.
	GameTiming timer
	double currTime
	call back function

	TimedEvent() {}
	TimedEvent(double time) {}
	bool execute()
		currTime += timer.update()
		if (m_currTime >= m_timeLimit)
			return true
		else
			return false

EventManager
	Vector<Event*> m_events

	void ProcessEvents()
		for (int i = 0; i < m_events.count(); i++)
			if (m_events[i].execute())
				m_events[i].callback()
				m_events.removeat(i)

	void addEvent(Event *event)
		m_events.insert(event);

	void AddTimedEvent(double timeLimit)
		TimedEvent *event = new TimedEvent(timeLimit);
		m_events.insert(event);


The EventManager will be handled as a singleton where there will be only 1 EventManager variable in the entire
engine and there will be a way to access it built into the header file for the system.  This way all systems
can register for events and add events, etc...


Game State

States the game can be in:
- Banner Parade - timed show opening screens including the company logo and any other screens required
- Main Menu - main title screen where it will be waiting for input from the user to progress the state
- New Game - Load new game specific stuff then move state to tutorial
- Tutorial - This state comes after New Game and introduces the main game play mechanics of the game
- Map Select - This state can be initiated from Tutorial, or the In Map state this is where the player selects
  what area of the city they want to go to
- In Map - This is the main game play state where all of the story will take place for the game this state can
  transition to Paused, or back to Map Select
- Paused - This is the state where the paused screen will be displayed this is where the player can check out
  certain collections of theirs, their achievements, etc... this screen is only reachable from InMap state this
  state/ window will also be where the player can select to go back to Map Select, Options Menu, Save and Exit
  the game.
- Load Saved Game - This is only selectable from Main Menu it will load the necessary data to load the players
  saved game progress and get them back to where they left off this state will either transition to In Map or
  to Map Select states.
- Options Menu - This is accessible from Main Menu, Paused and Map Select this will show a window where the player
  can set certain settings like key bindings and music and effect volumes.
- On Exit - THis state is accessible from Paused as well as any other state by pressing Escape when this state is
  invoked it will ask the player if they would like to save their game before exiting.

May 17th, 2016

Day 79 of Development
More Notes on how to handle various stuff in code from while I was at work:

Game States as Classes that inherit from base GameState

GameState Class
Constructor()
Destructor()
Update()

Data:
InputObject

What does every game state have in common?
What does every game state need to do every frame?
- Every Game state will need to display graphics on the screen
- Every Game state needs an update method
- Every Game State needs access to an input object to handle input

- BannerParade- Game State
Do I use an Event Manager object or just an event object?
bool nextBanner
int remainingBanners
int numberOfBanners
Timed Event Callback Function
Constructor()
Destructor()
Update()
	if (input->AcceptButton && currentBanner can be skipped)
		skip banner

	if (nextBanner)
		switch current banner to next banner
		nextBanner = false

	draw currentBanner

Event Callback Method()
	if (remainingBanners > 0)
		nextBanner = true
	remainingBanners--


- MainMenu- Game State
InputObject - inherited from base GameState set in constructor
Input callback methods for up, down, and AcceptButton press - these will be set in constructor
current Menu option selected variable
Constructor()
Destructor()
Update()
	draw titleScreen
	draw MenuItems in current state

input Callback for Up
	If first menu option is selected then
		switch to last menu option
	else
		menu option selected - 1

input callback for down
	if last menu option is selected then
		switch to first menu option
	else
		menu option selected + 1

input callback accept button
	fire an event off for changing the GameState
	if New Game Selected set GameState to NewGame/Tutorial
	if LoadGame Selected set GameState to LoadGame
	if Options Selected set GameState to OptionsMenu
	if Exit Selected set GameState to OnExit

- NewGame / Tutorial- Game State
need to figure out if I want an actual New Game State or just the tutorial state it comes down to is there any
processing that the new Game state would be better to process before transitioning to tutorial

InputObject
Tutorial text File name
Vector or map of text strings
I am thinking it would be better to use a map for text strings for the tutorial as well as other text strings
in the game because then if we decide to localize the game in other languages it would be easier to switch them
out because all you have to do is use the same key for the string and regardless of which language it is in the
game will load it properly.

May 18th, 2016

Day 80 of Development
Today I began working on implementing the new systems that I spent the past couple of days planning out logically.
I was able to get the Events, and EventManager classes code written I have not verified that they work yet because
I feel that in order to best verify functionality I need to finish the GameState Classes and once I have all of that
stuff written then I can get them implemented and working correctly in the game engine.  The goal at this point is
to have the Events, EventManager, and GameState stuff all coded and working properly by Sunday so that I can show it
off to my business partner to show what I have been able to complete so far.  Getting these core systems implemented
really will bring the game to a nice point it will bring it very close to being demo ready, with artwork, character
class implemented and displaying, and buildings, and trigger points being the short list of things that I need to
get working before the demo is ready to show off.  There are more things to finish than the list I just gave but not
to many more to add to that list.  I will try by Sunday to compile a list of things still needing to get done before
the demo can be handed off to investors.

May 19th, 2016

Day 81 of Development
Tonight the plan is to spend some time getting more of the code written from my notes from past days.  Another thing
that I have realized that I need to work on for this engine is some kind of a system for key bindings.  What I mean
is that I need to modify input or whatever I have to do to get it setup so that regardless of what key an action is
bound to when that action is activated it is handled correctly in the context of the system that is checking for it
and the state the game is in.  This is one system that I may need to get done in order to fully complete the game
state system.  I should be able to get it partially implemented and move forward and continue working on the input.

May 20th, 2016

Day 82 of Development
Today I'm going to get working on making changes to the input system and getting more done on the game state system
of the engine.  Some notes about what I'm reading now is that instead of having a single input map that the input
system handles I need to create an input map for each game state that defines the controls that are currently being
used in the game in the current state.  When a state change happens then I change the input map that is used in the
engine.

Note for when I get back to working on this later today after work:
Input States for the game:
Up
Down
Left
Right
Accept
Cancel/Exit Menu
Pause

I will continue my work on the project tomorrow as I have no energy left and can't see straight right now to work
on it.  I have some real direction for how I want to handle things in the engine.  I'm going to re work the input
system again and change it over to using an input map for each state the game is in, I'm also going to incorporate
the command design pattern and class into the engine and into the input system as I feel it is the best fit for 
making things work in a way that I can allow the user to specify key bindings during gameplay.

May 21st, 2016

Day 83 of Development
Today I'm hoping to get some work done on the input system changes that I want to make so that tomorrow I can finish
up the game state stuff to a tolerable point so that I when I take the demo over to my business partner and show the
progress I can show off the ability to change game states and stuff.

Commands:
So how I'm going to implement Command is that I will set things up so that each of the main Input States or Commands
that the game can assign controls for in each game state will have a class associated with it.  The things that I need
to figure out how I want to handle is the combination of keyboard and game pad commands for each command?  Do I use a
single command class for both keyboard and game pad or what???

Maybe for each input action that can happen the up, down, etc... there will be 2 classes tied to each one, a keyboard
one and a game pad one.  Each one handling their respective input type, or I can use a single one for each and have
a keyboard object and a game pad object tied to each command and then have methods for setting the input binding for
both keyboard and game pad.

So I have been able to get more work done on the project I got some code written for the Command system and I also was
able to get more of the plan figured out from a logic point of view.  I was going to use a series of Command classes
that inherited from the base Command Class but figured out that with the way that I want to handle things that maybe
I don't need to use more than 1 class.  The class will encompass everything that a command can be which is basically
a keyboard key binding and either a d-pad binding or a game pad button binding.  Basically if a d-pad direction is set
then I will code it so that when it sees there is a d-pad setting then it checks d-pad binding and processes accordingly
if it has a game pad button bound then same thing.  I will get this system integrated into the input class and into the
GameState system tomorrow and then test it out.  I'm hoping to after breaking it from integrating these systems into
the actual game engine that I can get it working properly again.  If I get that done and still have enough time then I
will attempt to setup the first couple game states correctly and get things mocked up for the demo.

May 22nd, 2016

Day 84 of Development
Today I am finishing up the changes to the input system and getting it implemented into the game engine.  I am going to
just hot wire it so to speak to show that it works I will link it up correctly once I get the game state and event system
working and implemented fully.

May 23rd, 2016

Day 85 of Development
Today I'm going to move forward with various systems for the game engine, I am going to continue working on the input system
and trying to get the game pad stuff to work properly.  I have the input system finished for the most part for now.  I will
probably have to continue to do more work at a later date as features need to be added to the game.  I will tackle those 
issues as they come up but for now I'm going to go ahead and move on.

I'm going to get back to work on the game state system and try to get that and events to a working state and wire them up
in the game engine.  My goal is to at least have it transition from Banner Parade, to Main Menu/ Title Screen and then with
a button press it will transition over to the in game map state for now until I get a tutorial built.

May 24th, 2016

Day 86 of Development
Today I'm going to back track more and get some more work on the input system done, I'm just not happy with how it functions
and how it feels glitchy when it does work.  So I'm going to keep working on it to get it to a stable state that I'm happy with
before I move on to the game state stuff.  But My goal is to get working on the game state stuff today.

I have the problem narrowed down to a couple possible issues and I will continue researching how to handle them correctly when
I get back home from working out.  I still can't quite solve why it doesn't work 100% the way I want it to but I can still move
on for now and when I come up with a solution I will fix it then.

May 29th, 2016

Day 87 of Development
Tonight I'm going to work on the game state system and hope to get the banner parade one completely designed out and hopefully
implemented.  I didn't get very far with this today but I will get back on track tomorrow.

May 31st, 2016

Day 88 of Development
I'm getting to work on the game state system and as I start to plan out the logic for it I run into a problem that I figured I would
run into eventually.  The rendering system the way it works now isn't going to work quite the way I need it to with the new game 
state system of the engine.  Right now each system grabs a copy of the graphics variable and then makes their own calls to the
system for rendering something.  But with game states switching all the time passing that variable around could get expensive
in system resources. The questions is how can I write a system where any engine system can add draw commands that get processed
every frame in a queue like fashion or First In First Out.  Or maybe the answer is not to write a new system but to simply create
a new event type for drawing graphics to the screen a DrawEvent that gets the data needed to draw to the screen and instead of
passing the graphics object around each system will have access to the EventManager and when they need to draw something to the
screen they can add the correct event type to the manager and then when it reaches the top of the Que it will get processed and
then removed from the Que and the next one will be processed.  So before I can work on the Game State system I need to get graphics
draw commands throughout the engine switched over to EventManager add commands.

Fixing this situation is going to take some time there is no way for me to finish the changes tonight, I have implemented the new
draw event and hooked it up but with these changes I must now implement changes to all other systems that draw things to the screen.
Which will take some time and I don't want to make that process to complicated because I will change it again as I implement the
game state.  Maybe I need to look at this as an opportunity to re think my whole rendering scheme in general.  Maybe this is the
point where I make it so that everything that I draw in the game is a version of a GameActor Object a class that inherits from the
base GameActor class.

I'm going to stop working on things for tonight and pick things back up tomorrow after a good nights rest, my goal for tomorrow is
to get some design work done for the GameActor base class and think about the various types of Actors in the game.

June 2nd, 2016

Day 89 of Development
Tonight I'm going to continue my work and research into how best to handle the Actor concepts in my engine so far I'm leaning
toward using a Component style system for this part of the engine.

June 6th, 2016

Day 90 of Development
Today I'm going to get this project back on track and get the game moving forward towards a complete demo to hand off to investors
to fund the company.  I was able to get some work done on the game state system, I do not have it complete but it is further along
than it was when I started today, I'm hoping to get it much further along tomorrow and possibly get it linked up into the engine
and working so that I can verify functionality.

June 11th, 2016

Day 91 of Development
I'm going to try to get back to working on the project again I'm sad to say that I have let outside distractions get in the way but
I'm serious this time when I say I'm going to get back to 100% focus on the project and getting the demo done.  I'm still working
out the details of the game state system I'm not 100% sure how I am going to handle it but I'm trying to come up with some ideas.
This is my current task getting the game state system built and implemented because once I do this it makes things a lot easier to
bring the demo to a playable point and also makes the future of the project seem possible.

-Game State Manager Class-

I have been working on the idea for this for part of the day and I have come up with an interesting idea that I think will work
very well for this system.  I will make it so that at the beginning of the game when the game state manager class is instantiated
it will add all potential game states to the state container in there opening state.  When a state needs to change to another
state for example if the player presses pause, or opens the in game menu while on a map then it will call a callback function
that will change the current state over to the state being requested.  This way I don't have to figure out how to keep data
related to each state alive in between them being added and destroyed.  The game state manager will call update on the current
game state each frame, when a state is changed it will be changed to the current state.  Only when the game ends or the window
is closed will all states be deleted for cleaning up memory.

June 12th, 2016

Day 92 of Development
I began working on implementing the game state manager in code today.  I have not completed it yet but I'm hoping to have it up
and working tomorrow and to be able to test it out and then hopefully move on to other parts of this project.

June 14th, 2016

Day 93 of Development
Working more on the design for the game state and game state management system, I thought I had it figured out the other day but
I realized more the past couple days that I need to do more design to get things working correctly.  Its better to take the time
to do this correctly than the fastest I can.

June 16th, 2016

Day 94 of Development
Working more on design for game state and game state management hoping to have it working by the end of the week and get the first
couple of states implemented.  I have accomplished a decent amount of understanding of how I'm going to handle game states and
the game state manager.  I will get things implemented into the engine and hopefully get the first state working correctly and
fully implemented and tested tomorrow.

June 17th, 2016

Day 95 of Development
I got a little bit more work done on implementing the game state and game state manager changes but I have not completed it yet
my goal is to still have it implemented and working by 6/25/16.

June 18th, 2016

Day 96 of Development
More work done on implementing the new design for game state and game state manager, the grind continues the deadline for this
system is coming.

June 20th, 2016

Day 97 of Development
Updates to the plan for this project and the deadline I'm setting for myself to get certain parts done. I'm going to set a new
deadline for this milestone of the project the new deadline is 7/1/2016 The requirements for considering this milestone is
successful one are:
Game States: Banner Parade will be fully implemented and functional without final art, Main Menu will be fully implemented and
functional again without final art, New Game/Tutorial will have basic functionality, will not be fully implemented and
functional and will not contain final art, Map Select I will have dialog boxes working for the dossier system on the map select
screen, I will have the ability to select a map section and go to it implemented and functional.

Map I will have the ability to transition from Map Select to the map working, I will have trigger points at a basic level working,
the player can go into and out of buildings, and move between blocks of the city.  The buildings will not be fully implemented the
inside will show up like they are supposed to but the player will not be able to move between floors in the building yet.

Character/Player I will get the class for this system implemented with animations, and I will implement the ability component
system for the engine, I will not have any of the abilities implemented in the engine but I will have the system there for adding
the abilities at a later date.

June 21st, 2016

Day 98 of Development
I worked on the game state for banner parade as well as the system for changing between states in the state manager I did not get
it fully functional today but I will do so tomorrow and test that it works.  Tomorrow I will also get more work done on the main
menu game state.

June 22nd, 2016

Day 99 of Development
I started trying to implement the new stuff into the engine and get it compiling and displaying correctly I ran into a problem with
the game state manager there is something that it doesn't like about my code that I need to fix to get it working.  Hopefully I can
figure it out fast and then move on.

I found the initial error not allowing it to compile and now can get the code to compile and the window opens up like it is
supposed to again but nothing is displaying on the screen at the moment.  I will investigate this issue more tomorrow after a good
night sleep.

June 24th, 2016

Day 100 of Development
New List of Things to do- notes from today
Banner Parade - get rid of event manager move the timing related code over to game state in general and make it an optional piece
of data for each game state, because several states will need access to timing related stuff so what I will probably do is just
have the game state manager take the time delta from the main game timer in and pass it along to the update method for each state.

While thinking about this stuff I have another idea that I'm going to implement maybe for the game state manager instead of holding
onto a pointer to the current state I can have a value that every state has that is called active it will be a bool value, and when
a state is active that is set to true and when it is not it is set to false.  And each frame each state will take in the time delta
and if it is a currently active state it will update its stuff if not than the only thing it will update is the timer variable to
make sure that we don't end up with a huge jump in action when switching between states because of a giant time delta being built
up for that state.

Main Menu State - Graphics: title screen, new Game option, Load Game Option, Options Option, Exit Option, Press Any Key Option and
their inverse selected versions.

Tutorial / New Game States - The New game state will be a state showing text and the town the player lives in giving them a glimpse
of the world.  It explains that you are dieing and have given up on life, One day you travel to the local mall to buy some mundane
thing.  This is when the tutorial will introduce the player to the combat system with the basic controls for moving the character
around on the screen and using Offensive and Defensive moves / abilities.  The mall level / map will be represented as a special
map of only one section and multiple layers.

Map Select State
- Graphics for Map select screen
- Vector of available map sections currently accessible - will probably all be in the vector at start and will be set invisible
based on a bool unlocked value.
- Graphics - Back Drop, Small Glimpse / thumbnail image of the map section that the selected area is for.
- Border for text box / dialog box for dossier.

- Figure out text / dialog boxes for the engine

Start on Player / Character class
- Graphics
- Animations
- Abilities - components

June 25th, 2016

Day 101 of Development
Notes From Today

Character Class
- Data -
string Name
Vector<Animations> animations
Vector<AttackAbilities> attacks
Vector<DefenseAbilities> defenses
float bloodLife
Vector<InvObjects> inventory

Inventory Object
ObjectID
Graphic when on the map
Graphic when on Inventory screen

- Animations -
Do I handle it locally in each class that needs animations or do I add it to the Graphics Class?
And While I'm thinking about the Graphics Class do I change that class? Maybe keep Direct X Initialization stuff in a separate
class and have a separate class that handles rendering of everything.  I need to figure out a way to create a level of indirection
for the graphics classes for the rendering and the system specific calls aka DX, or for a console there libraries.

So DX 11 class will create DX 11 device, context, etc... It will create stuff needed and will give access to device and whatever
else is needed.

In rendering class I can use ##IFDEF directive for windows, vs Mac OS, vs Linux vs Console.

Maybe figure out a way with those directives to change which class Objects are used when rendering? Or maybe have Generic Rendering
class and use Inheritance where other derived classes will be for specific OS- Windows, Mac OS, Linux, Console, etc...

So when the renderer is first initialized it can get initialized as a specific version.

Tomorrow I will get to work on implementing the changes that I added as notes to this from the past 2 days.

June 27th, 2016

Day 102 of Development
Getting started for today and trying to decide which item on my task list I want to handle first?  I think the best thing I could
start off taking care of would be re working the graphics code moving things around so that DX 11 Graphics is handled in a separate
class from the rendering.  The code to create the window on a windows environment should be separate from the rendering of graphics
on the screen, and the system for rendering graphics on the screen should be handled differently depending on the operating system
the game is being played on.

I did not get very much coding done today as I have been working out how I'm going to handle the various build configuration stuff
in visual studio.  I need to figure out the indirection or whatever the term is that I'm thinking of, I want to make it so that
based on the build that is currently being compiled it will use specific files, because then I can make specific classes to get the
game to run on a Mac, classes for Linux, and classes for consoles this way I can use one project for all planned platforms.  I am
going to make this work because I want our games to be releasable on just about any platform.  But I will have to work on this more
tomorrow as it is time for bed to recharge my brain because tomorrow will be a full day of development.

June 28th, 2016

Day 103 of Development
Today I did not get any programming done because when I started thinking about how to move forward with the project and the engine
I realized I needed to take a step back and look at the total class structure and flow for the engine and make sure I have all of
the systems figured out, what connects to what, and what contains what in the engine.  I think with what I have figured out today
I have a real clear path to what needs to be done to make this demo and in the end this game a complete professional title that I
can be proud that I developed.  I don't know that I will meet the deadline that I had set I'm still going to try to see how close I
can get to it.  Tomorrow my goal is to flesh out the details of as many of the classes on the flowchart that I created today I would
like to get them all written out tomorrow and then go in and implement changes that I need to make and create the new ones that need
to be developed.

July 3rd, 2016

Day 104 of Development
Today I was working on getting the game compiling again after a few days of making changes, moving code around to different classes
in order to fit the new direction I want to take the game engine for this project.  Tomorrow I will work on the game state manager
system and try to get the first 2 states working correctly.

July 4th, 2016

Day 105 of Development
Today I'm spending some time figuring out how I want to move forward with the engine for this game, I am debating between leaving
things the way they are with the rendering where I have the single class for DirectX11 that does all rendering the challenging with
doing things this way is that if I want to port this game over to another platform a game console or whatever then I will have to
re write this entire class for that console as opposed to making a layer between that class and the game play and have this other
class call in to the specific graphics class based on what build the game it being built for.

I found out how to target a platform #if _WIN32 this allows me to target windows 32 bit, I will add those in certain files as needed
to tell when to use certain code.

So I'm calling it a night now tonight I have gotten some work done quite a bit of design work done on a new sprite class, as well as
the Render Manager class.  I'm hoping to get both the Sprite class and the Render Manager class written tomorrow and working so that
I can move on to the game state stuff again and try to get the first 2 states implemented and working correctly like I want them to
be.

July 5th, 2016

Day 106 of Development
I began work on the sprite class today I have not fully implemented it but I'm hoping in the next few days to get it completed and
functioning as well as the rendering manager class.

July 8th, 2016

Day 107 of Development
 Today I got to work on getting the sprite class written as well as the render manager class written and working.  I have both 
 working and ready to go, the render manager class has been tested and works just fine the real test however will be whenever we
 are able to add console development to the project how it will work when there are 2 different build types if the system will 
 handle it correctly but for now it works correctly.  Now I'm moving on to trying to get the game state system working so that I
 can verify functionality of the first couple of game states namely banner parade and main menu my goal is by the end of the
 weekend I can have the 2 states working correctly.

 July 10th, 2016

 Day 108 of Development
 Completed a lot of work on the rework for the input system that I decided to do in the past couple of days, the decision to do
 this came around because when I was trying to figure out how to handle the game states and the game state manager I realized I
 needed to re think how I was handling input.  I have almost everything implemented correctly this time for the input system I
 have run into a bug that I'm hoping I can figure out right away tomorrow and get moving forward on the State system and get that
 working correctly, updating and displaying so that I can start to build the states and move this demo closer to being ready to
 show off.

 July 11th, 2016

 Day 109 of Development
OK today's goal first is to figure out the error with the input code and I'm happy to say that I have fixed the issue with this
system right away this morning and the input works correctly for the keyboard stuff now I need to make sure that the gamepad stuff
works correctly as well so that I can work with both keyboard and gamepad in the game.  Once I have that working then the rest of
the day will be spent working on the game state system getting that stuff working.

OK I'm so excited after all the trouble I had in the past with trying to get Game Pad stuff working in this engine after the changes
that I made yesterday I have been able to get the gamepad stuff to work flawlessly.  So now I have input working properly for both
a keyboard and the gamepad.  Now this means that my only task for today is to work on the game state stuff getting hopefully the
first 2 states working properly namely the banner parade and the main menu states.  If I can accomplish this today it will be a HUGE
step towards demo completion.

I'm ending the night on a really good note I have made excellent progress on the project today getting the input system buttoned up
is a huge step forward, I was hoping to finish the first 2 states and the state manager tonight as well but I didn't quite make it
before I could no longer see straight anymore.  But I am very confident that I will complete the first 2 states and the state
manager tomorrow and get it implemented and tested.  From there I can move on to other states in the state system to get more of
the demo completed.  I did get the Banner Parade State completed I believe, without testing I can't be sure and I can't test it
until I get the 2nd state done and the state manager completed as well.  But this puts me in a good spot to complete those 2 pieces
tomorrow and get things working.

July 12th, 2016

Day 110 of Development
Today I set out with the goal to get 2 of the game states working and the game state manager and I'm so happy to be able to say that
I have been able to get 3 game states finished and working and the game state manager working as well.  The project is coming along
so well now I know there is still a lot to go but I can now do a big check mark next to a section that seemed so very daunting to
get working correctly.  I still have several states to get implemented and working but still a great accomplishment.  Tomorrow I
will move on to more of the various systems of the engine I have not decided what I will work on tomorrow but I will figure that
out tomorrow morning.

July 13th, 2016

Day 111 of Development
Today I have decided to put my time into looking at the design of the map system and figure out what I need to do to get moving 
between sections, trigger points, buildings, and objects working properly.  So my project is to work on the design of this system.

July 14th, 2016

Day 112 of Development
